---
date: 2020-07-27
title: "Release 0.0.7"
linkTitle: "Release 0.0.7"
description: "Release announcement for version 0.0.7"
author: Luke Nihlen
---

The [release notes]({{ <ref "docs/Developer Documentation/Scintillator-Release-Notes.md" >}}) are up for 0.0.7. It's
been almost three months since my last post, I've been heads down busy with a bunch of refactoring to Scintillator core
components. I'm trying to get to a place where the API and object names are more stable, so I added support for
frame-rate and shape-rate VGens.

Also in there is server crash reporting, and some preliminary support for ingestion of realtime audio into Scintillator
via PortAudio.

I misunderstood how Quarks are distributed, so have been pushing newer and newer versions of the sclang code without
updating the server binary. I'm pleased to report that I have a few potential users for Scintillator, but the way I've
discovered this is through bug reports where folks are telling me that its current state (for folks who aren't building
the server from source) is quite broken. One of those good news/bad news situations. I will push development on the next
release to a different branch from now on, and am rushing 0.0.7 a bit in order to get folks into a less broken state.

I've added documentation for more VGens and more examples. I think with a little more development work I'd like to
be able to start recording a few YouTube tutorials and demos. There's also more to do on a variety of other fronts. I
think getting to a monthly release cadence would probably start to make sense.

I appreciate folks who have been reaching out, via email or Slack. I'm always surprised and delighted to hear about
people using the software, and happy to answer any questions you may have. So don't be a stranger!

