---
date: 2020-05-03
title: "Release 0.0.5"
linkTitle: "Release 0.0.5"
description: "Updates about pre-alpha release 0.0.5"
author: Luke Nihlen
---

**Release 0.0.5**

I asked some SuperCollider developers on the SuperCollider Slack channel to do some preliminary testing of the
Scintillator Quark. My hope was by asking SuperCollider developers that they would be more understanding of pre-alpha
quality software, and more willing to help resolve issues as they arose.

I got a lot of great feedback about the documentation, which hopefully I've improved. And I also learned that the
current installation flow is too much work. Lastly I found a couple of bugs in the sclang-side code that meant that the
server seemed totally broken if installed anywhere with a path that has spaces in it.

This release adds an automated server download and install step, which is performed automatically on class library
recompilation. Feels a little dangerous but hopefully it will really help lower the energy barrier for folks installing
the Quark.

Lastly I'm delighted to share that this is the first release with another contributor to the code base other than
myself. [James Surgenor](https://jamessurgenormusic.com/), a longtime SuperCollider developer, has graciously
contributed several usability fixes, along with several great suggestions about how to make the Scintillator API more
usable and intuitive. I'm excited to have them aboard, and hope to welcome other contributors in the future.

I'm hopeful with a bit more validation by developers on their computers we can make 0.0.6 the first alpha release, and
announce it more broadly, perhaps to the SC developers email list.

